hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions students in
China at the Nanjing University of
Aeronautics and Astronautics have to
solve a math problem to connect to the
Internet at one of the dining halls
here's the problem that went viral it's
the integral from negative two to two of
the following quantity we have X cubed
times the cosine of X over two plus one
half we want that entire thing to be
multiplied by the square root of four
minus x squared the Wi-Fi password is
the first eight digits of the answer now
you can't use the internet to solve this
problem because you're trying to get the
Wi-Fi password and you're also not
allowed to use calculators you have to
solve this using pencil and paper can
you figure it out give this problem a
try and when you're ready keep watching
the video for a solution now before I
explain the solution I just want to
present a fun fact around the year 480
the Chinese mathematician Zhu Chung Zi
derived the approximation pi is
approximately equal to 3.1415926
for the ratio of a circles circumference
to its diameter this was the world's
most accurate calculation of Pi for over
1,000 years
Xue also discovered the rational
approximation of 355 over 113 which is
accurate to 6 decimal places so with
that in mind let's go ahead and solve
this problem how can we solve this
integral we'll first distribute what's
in the parentheses so we have two
separate integrals now let's consider
the integral on the left we can evaluate
it by considering even and odd functions
X cubed is an odd function cosine of X
over 2 is an even function and the
square root of 4 minus x squared is an
even function we can put this all
together
to conclude the product of these
functions is also in
odd function now recall the integral of
an odd function over a symmetric
interval like negative a to a is
identically 0 this means this entire
integral vanishes and is equal to 0
so we've already simplified the problem
tremendously now how do we solve this
integral remember that x squared plus y
squared is equal to 4 is the equation
for a circle centered at 0 0 with the
radius of 2 so we can graph the square
root of 4 minus x squared as being a
semicircle it'll have a radius of 2 and
it'll just be in the positive y axis we
want to calculate the area under here
and then we want to take one-half of the
area so the integral will be 1/2 the
area of a semicircle with the radius of
2 PI R squared is the formula for the
area of a circle so we want 1/2 PI R
squared and then we want half of that so
we all 1/2 of 1/2 PI R squared and this
all simplifies to be pi so that's the
answer but to get the Wi-Fi password we
need to know the first eight digits of
pi how can you remember that one method
is to memorize a simple sentence and
then count the number of letters in each
word a sentence that I found online is
the following how I wish I could
calculate pi easily today now we count
the letters in each word this will be
three one four one five nine two six
five the Wi-Fi password is the first
eight digits and that's our answer did
you figure it out thanks for watching
this video these math videos which can
be watched for free inspire and build
confidence for people around the
and they already have over a hundred
million views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can math
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the news
videos watch and share all of mind you
decisions videos and email me a puzzle
or mat topic pressure mind your
decisions calm and if you so choose you
can check on my books which are linked
in the video description and you can
support me on patreon to earn exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support